OSDOCS-3158: Removal of upstream vSphere CSI driver (#40571)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-vsphere-install-issues.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// persistent-storage-csi-vsphere.adoc
//

[id="persistent-storage-csi-vsphere-install-issues_{context}"]
= Removing an upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver

> If you have installed an upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver, and then attempt to update your cluster to {product-title} 4.10 or later, {product-title} prevents the update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have installed an upstream vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator Driver, and then attempt to update your cluster to {product-title} 4.10 or later, {product-title} prevents the update.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have installed an upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver, and then try to update your cluster to {product-title} 4.10 or later, {product-title} prevents the update.
```
Plain language nit: Consider replacing _attempt_ with _try_.

> To correct this issue and udpate the cluster, a cluster admin must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To correct this issue and update the cluster, a cluster admin must:
```

. Delete the upstream vSphere CSI driver Deployment object.
. Delete the upstream vSphereCSI driver Daemonset objects:

> .. Be sure to delete `CSIDriver`:

Reviewer 2: @lpettyjo The step `delete CSIDriver object` and `delete configmap and secret objects` is not  step2's sub steps. From my side, the steps ownership looks a bit strange. It seems better change to:
```
1. Delete the upstream vSphere CSI driver(VMware vSphere Container Storage Plug-in) Deployment and  Daemonset objects.

2. Delete configmap and secret objects which created previously used by the upstream vSphere CSI Driver.

3.  Delete the upstream vSphereCSI driver `CSIDriver` object.
~ $ oc delete CSIDriver csi.vsphere.vmware.com
csidriver.storage.k8s.io "csi.vsphere.vmware.com" deleted

```
WDYT?

+
[output, screen]
----

> ~ $ oc delete CSIDriver csi.vsphere.vmware.com

Reviewer 2: For the command and output, we'd better unify with the same style like : https://deploy-preview-40571--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-vsphere.html#csi-tp-enable_persistent-storage-csi-vsphere
Divided the command and output to 2 different code blocks for customer copy conveniently.

csidriver.storage.k8s.io "csi.vsphere.vmware.com" deleted
----
+

> .. Be sure to delete configmap, and secret objects that were installed previously for the functioning of the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Be sure to delete the configmap and secret objects that were installed with of the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.
```
Does this change the intended meaning too much? In either case, I think we can ditch the comma because the both the config map and secret objects were previously installed. WDYT?

Reviewer: Will customers know where to find the _secret objects_?

> .. Be sure to delete configmap and secret objects that were installed previously with the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 2: The same metioned above.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// persistent-storage-csi-vsphere.adoc
//

[id="persistent-storage-csi-vsphere-install-issues_{context}"]
= Removing an upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver

> If you have installed an upstream vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator Driver, and then try to update your cluster to {product-title} 4.10 or later, {product-title} prevents the update.

Reviewer 3: We need to connect https://issues.redhat.com/browse/INSIGHTOCP-577 to these docs. @gnufied can you followup in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/INSIGHTOCP-577 they have questions for you.

> To correct this issue and update the cluster, a cluster admin must:

Reviewer 4: We should also mention that, removing upstream CSI driver does not require deletion of associated PV objects and no data loss should happen.

. Delete the upstream vSphere CSI driver (VMware vSphere Container Storage Plug-in) Deployment and Daemonset objects.
. Delete the configmap and secret objects that were installed previously with the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.
. Delete the upstream vSphereCSI driver `CSIDriver` object:

> +

Reviewer 4: In a nutshell - customer should be advised to read documentation of source from which they installed upstream driver for exact steps that needs to be performed for uninstalling them.

> +

Reviewer 3: In https://access.redhat.com/articles/6679231, I phrase this as ```These instructions may not be exhaustive, so please consult the 'install/uninstall' guide for the vendor/community provider to remove the driver/components.```

[output, terminal]
----
~ $ oc delete CSIDriver csi.vsphere.vmware.com
----
+
[output, terminal]
----
csidriver.storage.k8s.io "csi.vsphere.vmware.com" deleted
----

> The {product-title} update restarts automatically after you have completed removing the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 3: @gnufied is it possible; that a customer 'partially' remove components; and the OSO installs our driver; and you get into a mixed state (but still end up degraded)? 

Would the product logs be able to help us narrow in on what objects/resources this is happening on / with?

> The {product-title} update restarts automatically after you have completed removing the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 2: @gnufied @sferich888 In addition,4.x upgrade to 4.10 if there was a storageclass named "thin-csi" existed before upgrade, storage cluter operator degraded .https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2055014 From my side, we add a check(Important reminding) here is better: 
```
Before upgrade confirm there is no storageclass name `thin-csi` 
```

> The {product-title} update restarts automatically after you have completed removing the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 4: That sounds like a bug (I will confirm it tomorrow morning), so lets not add anything about `thin-csi` storageclass in documentation yet.

@sferich888 it is possible but possibility is somewhat remote, because we are checking for `CSIDriver` AND `CSINode` object and hence if something was left over, we will detect it and block installation of our own driver.

> The {product-title} update restarts automatically after you have completed removing the upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 4: @lpettyjo the documentation does not reflect wording I requested and is actually incorrect.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// persistent-storage-csi-vsphere.adoc
//

[id="persistent-storage-csi-vsphere-install-issues_{context}"]
= Removing an upstream vSphere CSI Operator Driver

If you have installed a non-Red Hat vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator Driver, and then try to update your cluster to {product-title} 4.11 or later, {product-title} prevents the update.

> 

Reviewer 4: How about something like:

"Openshift 4.10 comes with a built-in version of vSphere CSI driver and hence after upgrading to 4.10, your cluster may have upgrades to next major version(such as 4.11) of Openshift disabled - if there is a non-redhat provided vSphere CSI driver present in the cluster. The 4.10 cluster is still fully supported and upgrades to bug fix versions of 4.10(4.10.z) are not blocked but you must correct this state before upgrades to next major version of Openshift can be enabled"

Reviewer 4: I know according to semver - 4.11 is basically a minor version but I don't know precise language we use in openshift-docs to convey that meaning. I don't expect users reading these docs to be familiar with semver (or other nuances of versioning).

> If you have installed a non-Red Hat vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator Driver, updates for your cluster to the next major version of {product-title}, such as 4.11, may be disabled due to {product-title} 4.10 having a built-in version of the vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 4: please replace `Operator Driver` here with just `Driver`.

Author: Implemented this comment.

{product-title} 4.10 clusters are still fully supported, and updates to bug fix versions of 4.10, such as 4.10.z, are not blocked, but you must correct this state by removing the non-Red Hat vSphere CSI Operator Driver before updates to next major version of {product-title} can occur. Removing the non-Red Hat vSphere CSI driver does not require deletion of associated persistent volume (PV) objects, and no data loss should occur.

> 

Reviewer 4: same here for "CSI Operator Driver" here

Author: Implemented this comment.

[NOTE]
====

> These instructions may not be complete, so consult the vendor or community provider uninstall guide to ensure removal of the driver and components.

Author: The procedure provided is a bare-bones outline. We cannot know how/what they installed, so we cannot provide a complete procedure.

====

To uninstall the non-Red Hat vSphere CSI Operator Driver:

> . Delete the non-Red Hat vSphere CSI driver (VMware vSphere Container Storage Plug-in) Deployment and Daemonset objects.

Reviewer 4: We can't say replace it with `VMWare vSphere Container storage plugin` here. We don't know how customer installed the plugin.

> . Delete the configmap and secret objects that were installed previously with the non-Red Hat vSphere CSI Operator Driver.

Reviewer 4: same here for `Operaror Driver`

Author: Implemented this comment.

Reviewer 4: still says "Operator Driver"

Author: I don't know why that isn't updating. If you look at line 18 in the **File Changed** tab, it is correct.

> . Delete the non-Red Hat vSphereCSI driver `CSIDriver` object:

Reviewer 2: @lpettyjo It seems a bit fomat issue. `vSphereCSI driver` -> `vSphere CSI driver`, Others looks good to me.

+
[output, terminal]
----
~ $ oc delete CSIDriver csi.vsphere.vmware.com
----
+
[output, terminal]
----
csidriver.storage.k8s.io "csi.vsphere.vmware.com" deleted
----

> If you have started an update to {product-title), after you have completed removal of non-Red Hat vSphere CSI driver, the {product-title} update automatically resumes.

Reviewer 4: This statement is not accurate partially tbh. Presence of a non-Red Hat CSI driver never blocked update to 4.10 (unless you mean update to 4.11).

We should say something like:

Once you have removed non-Red Hat vSphere CSI driver from Openshift cluster, installation of Red Hat provided vSpehre CSI driver is automatically resumed and any conditions that could block upgrades to 4.11 are automatically removed. If you had existing vSphere CSI persistent-volume(PVs) objects, their lifecycle will be now managed by Red Hat provided vSphere CSI driver.

Author: Implemented this comment.

Reviewer 4: The wording - " non-Red Hat vSphere CSI Operator Driver", should say "non-Redhat vSphere CSI driver". We can not assume the third party driver was installed via an Operator.

Author: Implemented this comment.
